A proposal for project decision-making (#73)
carpentries/glosario: GOVERNANCE.md

    meeting, and must include:
    -   a one-line summary (the subject line of the issue)
    -   the full text of the proposal
    -   any required background information
    -   pros and cons
    -   possible alternatives

2.  A quorum is established in a meeting if half or more of voting members are
    present.

3.  Once a person has sponsored a proposal, they are responsible for it.  The
    group may not discuss or vote on the issue unless the sponsor or their
    delegate is present.  The sponsor is also responsible for presenting the
    item to the group.

4.  After the sponsor presents the proposal, a sense vote is cast for the
    proposal prior to any discussion:
    -   Who likes the proposal?
    -   Who can live with the proposal?
    -   Who is uncomfortable with the proposal?

5.  If all of the group likes or can live with the proposal, it is immediately
    accepted with no further discussion.

6.  If most of the group is uncomfortable with the proposal, it is postponed for
    further rework by the sponsor.

7.  If any members are uncomfortable they can briefly state their objections.  A
    timer is then set for a brief discussion moderated by the facilitator.

>     After 10 minutes or when no one has anything further to add (whichever comes

Reviewer: I think this is a good standard for our current group size, but the time limit here does present a barrier for those who are not able to communicate fluently (e.g. those who have disabilities related to verbal communication and/or are not relatively comfortable speaking in English). I would suggest to use a modification from the text for Martha's rules of something like "during roll call, members will state how much time they reasonably require for comments. For example, an abled English speaker may request 2 minutes as reasonable." This way, we can be equitable for any members who require more time to speak.

    first), the facilitator calls for a yes-or-no vote on the question: "Should
    we implement this decision over the stated objections?"  If a majority votes
    "yes" the proposal is implemented.  Otherwise, the proposal is returned to
    the sponsor for further work.

## Suffrage

1.  The following people are currently voting members of this project:

>     -   [Ian Flores Siaca](https://audassimus.com/)

Reviewer 2: My page is ianfs.dev

Author: Thanks.

    -   [Zhian Kamvar](https://zkamvar.netlify.app/)
    -   [François Michonneau](https://francoismichonneau.net/)
    -   [Greg Wilson](http://third-bit.com/)

2.  To become a voting member:
    1.  A current member must sponsor a proposal to add the candidate.
    2.  That proposal must pass as outlined in the "Making Decisions" section of
        this page.

> 3.  Voting members may resign from the project at any time, or lose their vote

Reviewer 2: Would this be by 50% as well?

Author: Yes - usual rules apply.

    if a proposal to that effect is passed as outlined in the "Making Decisions"
    section of this page.
    1.  A proposal to remove someone's vote may not contain any other business.
    2.  Each person must be the subject of a separate proposal.
    3.  The person in question has the right to vote on the proposal to remove
        their vote.

## Recording Decisions

> Proposals that have been accepted are listed below in reverse chronological

Reviewer 2: Do we want to list them here? How to keep track of it? Manual?

Author: Yes and yes until the group decides on something else, such as a wiki page in the GitHub repo or a separate `RESOLUTIONS.md` file (both of which feel like overkill for now).

    issue in the GitHub repository tagged "proposal".  Proposals must be filed
    at least 24 hours before a meeting in order to be considered at that
    meeting, and must include:
    -   a one-line summary (the subject line of the issue)
    -   the full text of the proposal
    -   any required background information
    -   pros and cons
    -   possible alternatives

2.  A quorum is established in a meeting if half or more of voting members are
    present.

3.  Once a person has sponsored a proposal, they are responsible for it.  The
    group may not discuss or vote on the issue unless the sponsor or their
    delegate is present.  The sponsor is also responsible for presenting the
    item to the group.

4.  After the sponsor presents the proposal, a sense vote is cast for the
    proposal prior to any discussion:
    -   Who likes the proposal?
    -   Who can live with the proposal?
    -   Who is uncomfortable with the proposal?

5.  If all of the group likes or can live with the proposal, it is immediately
    accepted with no further discussion.

6.  If most of the group is uncomfortable with the proposal, it is postponed for
    further rework by the sponsor.

> 7.  If any members are uncomfortable:

Author: Amended as per @zkamvar's comments.

6.  If most of the group is uncomfortable with the proposal, it is postponed for
    further rework by the sponsor.

7.  If any members are uncomfortable:
    1.  They can briefly state their objections and tell the facilitator how
        much time they reasonably require to make comments.
    1.  The facilitator then sets a time limit for discussion at 10 minutes

>         plus whatever upward adjustment needed to meet any special needs
>         participants may have.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        plus whatever upward adjustment needed to accommodate for any barriers
        to verbal communication.
```
